combine and simplify sq and exports (#5470)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/exports.md

sidebar_label: "Write queries with exports"
---

> Exports enhances the [saved queries](/docs/build/saved-queries) by automatically run saved queries and write them within your data platform. Saved queries are a way to save and reuse commonly used queries in MetricFlow, exports takes this functionality a step further by:

Author: ```suggestion
Exports enhances [saved queries](/docs/build/saved-queries) by running your saved queries and writing the output to a table or view within your data platform. Saved queries are a way to save and reuse commonly used queries in MetricFlow, exports take this functionality a step further by:
```

- You have a [saved query and export configured](/docs/build/saved-queries#configure-exports) in your dbt project. 
- You have the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) installed. Note, exports aren't supported in dbt Cloud IDE yet.

## Run exports

Before you're able to run exports in development or production, you'll need to make sure you've [configured saved queries and exports](/docs/build/saved-queries#configure-exports) in your dbt project.

There are two ways to run an export:
  
- [Run exports in development](#exports-in-development) using the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) to test the output before production (dbt Cloud IDE isn't supported yet).
- [Run exports in production](#exports-in-production) using the [dbt Cloud job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler) to write these queries within your data platform.

## Exports in development

You can run an export in your development environment using your development credentials if you want to test the output of the export before production. You can use the following command to run exports in the dbt Cloud CLI:

```bash
dbt sl export
```

> The following table lists the options for `dbt sl export` command, using the `--` flag to specify the parameters:  

Author: ```suggestion
The following table lists the options for `dbt sl export` command, using the `--` flag prefix to specify the parameters:  
```
